Kiernan Forbes, better known as AKA, is back on social media and the rapper is posting up a storm. AKA previous post on his Instagram accounts have been statements in relation to his late fiancee’s death Anele Nellie Tembe and attempts to clear his name of any allegations that he was involved in Tembe’s death. On 9 April, two days before Tembe’s was the last “normal” post he had, a Cruz Vodka advert. His posts over the weekend, however, have left an eerie feeling for some. One of the videos in his Instagram stories showed AKA in field dancing, but the song choice, Travis Scott’s Piss on Your Grave, was eyebrow raising to say the least. AKA on his Instagram stories. Picture: Screengrab It can easily be assumed that the song choice is in poor taste. Particularly the circumstances of his late fiancee’s death still not determined, as yet. This added with doubts and insinuations of his alleged involvement in her death. The police have maintained they are still investigating the inquest docket. AKA’s latest posts were taken in Cape Town, he also posted pictures of his dog, Mr Lou, also known as King Louie The 13th Forbes. The dog now has its own account and it has racked up over 2 000 followers. ALSO READ: ‘I regret many things’ – AKA opens up about Nelli’s previous suicide attempts One of the posts, a video of his daughter Kairo Forbes was posted on Sunday.   A post shared by King Louie The 13th Forbes (@mrlouworldwide)  Last month, AKA did a controversial interview with journalist Thembekile Mrototo on BarLeader TV YouTube channel. It is there where he described how his relationship with Tembe as “passionate” but not “toxic”. He denied he was under any drug substances during their relationship and detailed how “unstable” Tembe’s mental state was. He said: “I regret many things, not just that. In the hours after it happened, I thought about my entire relationship with her, since the start. Could I have helped her, and taken her disposition more seriously? Should I have been more pushy about her taking her medication?” Tembe’s father, Moses Tembe, reacted to the interview and said the family will not be responding to all the statements made by AKA. Adding they want to “avoid any possible conflict which could arise to all the legal inquires”. READ NEXT: Anele Tembe’s father responds to AKA interview 