Controversial poet, musician and self-proclaimed activist Ntsiki Mazwai has sparked a conversation about black women’s hair after she took a swipe at DJ Zinhle. Mazwai went off on a rant on Thursday about one of her favourite topics, hair extensions. This was after DJ Zinhle (Ntombezinhle Jiyane) announced she had added yet another business to her business portfolio. RELATED: DJ Zinhle talks Hair Majesty and the business of wigs “You know what I find fascinating, your role models African Americans are waking up to their real hair….. When they look across to Africa for inspiration they gonna find you ladies in bad weaves,” tweeted Mazawai before adding” “I’m sorry but our biggest celebs are airheads…” “When have they ever said anything of value?”. She then said white South Africans love certain celebrities because those celebrities are airheads “ready to sacrifice their own people to secure the bag”. Moving on from talking about their intelligence (or lack thereof), Mazwai went on to take exception to the types of business ventures celebrities choose. “Sies man,” tweeted Mazwai, using a phrase often used to express disgust. Imagine….. Your celebs glamorize and sell booze and foreign hair to you. Sies man. — KUMKANIKAZI (@ntsikimazwai) June 3, 2021  Weaves and Booze. Nice work leaders. You make the youth focus on weaves and booze. Levels. — KUMKANIKAZI (@ntsikimazwai) June 3, 2021  Sies. And then the black girl puts that on her head. So fucking gross. Omg. https://t.co/6LcpsOmGQg — KUMKANIKAZI (@ntsikimazwai) June 3, 2021  Many immediately assumed this was in reference to DJ Zinhle’s new company, Hair Majesty (a play on “her majesty,” lyrics from one of the DJ’s most popular songs). Some Twitter users even tried to defend Zinhle, but Mazwai was not having it. Imagine….. Your celebs glamorize and sell booze and foreign hair to you. Sies man. — KUMKANIKAZI (@ntsikimazwai) June 3, 2021  Not even influencer Mihlali Ndamase – who recently featured on the cover of Forbes Africa magazine’s 30 under 30 cover – was safe from Mazwai’s tirade. As a ‘revolutionary voice’ ???????????? https://t.co/g8yLfZqRWk — KUMKANIKAZI (@ntsikimazwai) June 3, 2021  Guys uthini na uForbes
… Mihlali is a revolutionary what? ???????????? — KUMKANIKAZI (@ntsikimazwai) June 3, 2021  She went on to declare that liking and wearing extensions is a “mental illness” despite not having any qualifications or experience in the field of psychiatry. Because the development of the black nation matters to me. It matters to me that we fix the low self esteem black people have. The identity crisis matters to me. https://t.co/VLWNliqRmK — KUMKANIKAZI (@ntsikimazwai) June 3, 2021  Only black women have a foreign standard of beauty…. It’s embarrassing — KUMKANIKAZI (@ntsikimazwai) June 3, 2021  She also believes that the global hair extensions business is the same as the drug trade. Selling weaves is no different to selling drugs.
We are dealing with an addiction. — KUMKANIKAZI (@ntsikimazwai) June 3, 2021  Mazwai trended on Thursday morning as many took to their own timeline to disagree with much of what she had to say. READ NEXT: Ntsiki Mazwai explains what she does for a living