Many of us own electronically-powered gadgets, appliances and computers in our homes. Power surges can result in damage, which are often irreparable for many kinds of electronics or appliances. Computers can even experience data loss from a power surge. There are things you can do to protect your valuables – and it’s simpler than you may think. In South Africa, the standard electrical voltage supply is 220/230 volts at a frequency of 50HZ. Power surges occur when the voltage exceeds the norm and flows at a higher voltage and frequency. When the normal operating voltage is exceeded, an arc of electrical current can occur. This generates heat – and it’s this heat that causes damage to an electronic circuit board, and by extension, an affected appliance or electronic device. Surges can happen during a power grid switching process, or can occur unexpectedly if there’s a malfunction in a nearby transmission line or transformer. Load shedding, and even an instance where a lightning strike occurs during an electrical storm can also result in power surges. Smaller power surges are also possible if a high-powered electrical appliance switches on and off too often- such as a refrigerator or an air conditioner. The motors and compressors of these appliances typically require a considerable amount of energy in order to switch on and off; and so if they do, the normal voltage flow in the electrical system is disrupted – resulting in a surge. Damage as a result of smaller power surges can be incremental and accumulate over time. A major surge can cause more permanent damage instantly, but smaller disruptions typically tend to shorten the “lifespan” of a particular device or appliance over time. Sometimes a utility company may need to perform maintenance which could result in surges. Any other occurrence will likely be unexpected. So, to best protect either small or major surges from damaging your valuables, the below tips can be useful to get into the habit of implementing: On the Discovery Insure home insurance plans, there is varying levels of cover provided for power surge claims that result in damage or a need to have an insured item replaced. Discovery Insure clients can also upgrade their Essential and Classic plans to higher amounts of power surge cover for a small monthly amount. To find out about the power surge cover from discovery insure call us on 086 751 751 or speak to your adviser.