There are a few South African dishes that many of us assume should remain traditional and how they have been made over the years. One of those is pap from the local staple maize meal. It shouldn’t be fussy, “westernised”, or made fancy for a five-star restaurant. Just keep it as it is. But recreating or remaking many of our favourite traditional dishes can be done right. That is why Michelin Star chef Jan Hendrik van der Westhuizen and White Star are trying to get us out of our comfort zones. Chef Jan Hendrik is well known in the food industry for his five-star dishes that have won him numerous awards and one Michelin Star for his Restaurant Jan, in Nice, France. The chef’s partnership with White Star under the campaign “For The Love of Maize” presented an opportunity for home cooks to elevate the local staple. ALSO READ: Pap recipe ideas: Pap French Toast Omelette and more In a master class at Why Cook in Bryanston, Chef Jan Hendrik virtually showed three innovative ways for us to cook with maize. Some were old favourites, given fresh new takes, and the recipes are simple,  and some quite quick. One of the standouts was the pap caviar. It was an interesting one, with the chef’s creating an alternative for caviar by reducing balsamic vinegar to a thick texture. For all the recipes, the pap should preferably be leftover or done the night, so it can hold its shape. All three recipes are exciting, including the pap mozzarella balls, which were well seasoned, and only matched by  our pap omelettes, which used the maize staple as an omelette filling. Time: overnight + 1 ½ hours / SERVES: 4 – 6 The stywe pap The sheba / tomato chakalaka sauce Balsamic caviar For the pap For the sheba For the balsamic caviar Pour the oil into a bowl and refrigerate overnight.
Place the balsamic vinegar, sugar, garlic clove and thyme into a pot and place on the heat, bring to the boil and leave to simmer or until the mixture has reduced to 150ml. Remove from the heat and season with salt and pepper. Pour the mixture through a fine sieve to remove the thyme. Place the gelatine leaf into a bowl of cold water until the gelatine leaf is soft, remove it from the water and add it into the warm balsamic reduction. Stir with a spoon until the gelatine is dissolved. Then pour the mixture into a disposable piping bag.
Place the bowl of frozen oil over another bowl that is filled with ice water. Cut a very small tip off of the piping bag and gently drizzle the balsamic reduction all around into the bowl of the frozen oil. Once you have finished drizzling the juice into the oil, place it back into the freezer. Leave for an hour and then strain the balsamic caviar out of the oil by pouring it through a sieve. Spoon the chakalaka / sheba sauce in your serving bowls.
Arrange your fried pap caviar on top the sauce. Spoon balsamic caviar on top and garnish with fresh basil.
Finish it off with tete du moine.