Following the announcement that My Kitchen Rules SA returns to M-Net this September, M-Net has put a call out to all home chefs looking to enter. My Kitchen Rules SA has cemented its role as a fast-paced and intense cooking competition. According to M-Net, the new season will see teams of avid home cooks go head to head in a bid to impress their fellow competitors and celebrity judges – J’Something and David Higgs – all in the hopes of winning the R1 million grand prize.  Contestants will need to have a great connection with their partner and be foodies at heart who are ready to bring their personal style and flavour to the My Kitchen Rules SA table. M-Net says the partnership must be a pre-existing and strong relationship like a spouse, best friend, fiancé, neighbour or cousin. “The pandemic has made food, cooking at home and cooking together as a family big again. All this time that South Africans have spent in the kitchen and online following their favourite foodies raises the bar for the new season,” said award-winning chef and contest judge David Higgs in a statement. Home cooks who are chosen will start their pressure cooker journey in an instant pop-up restaurant round, where each couple will host their competitors and two celebrity judges with a themed three-course dinner. “Then, couples who avoid the chopping block in round one will proceed to the challenge knock-out competition rounds where they will battle against each other in a series of cooking challenges at the contest kitchen HQ and various off-site locations.” Entries open today, 1 June 2021 and will close at 12pm on 30 June 2021. Both team members must be 18 years old or older on 1 August 2021. “When creating your home audition video, showcase each of your personalities and your skills in the kitchen. Most importantly, make sure that you and your chosen partner have a good connection and great rapport in the kitchen. Good luck!” advised passionate home cook and judge J’Something. My Kitchen Rules SA will premiere on M-Net (DStv Channel 101) in September.