Eskom confirmed that load shedding stage 2 will be implemented from 10am to 10pm on Thursday, 9 June 2021, “due to delays in returning generating units”. “Due to continued delays in returning generation units to service at Kusile, Tutuka, Duvha, Kendal and Koeberg power stations, stage 2 load shedding will be implemented”. Eskom said the constraints in generation units “have been exacerbated by the high winter demand throughout the day over the past few days”. The power utility tried to stave off load shedding during the day by using emergency reserves, which has now been depleted. “It is, therefore, necessary to implement load shedding continuously in order to replenish the emergency reserves”. At the time of publishing, breakdowns were at 13 752MW capacity, while planned maintenance was 1 273MW. Eskom warns that capacity constraints will “continue for the foreseeable future” and urged South Africans to reduce electricity consumption. Now read: Dube protest: ‘Eskom, we are coming for you’ #POWERALERT1 Stage 2 loadshedding will be implemented from 10:00 this morning until 22:00 on Sunday night due to delays in returning generating units pic.twitter.com/aeS1oqVKl4 — Eskom Hld SOC Ltd (@Eskom_SA) June 9, 2021  Saving electricity during the colder months can be tricky. Heating appliances account for a substantial amount of the average household’s electricity usage. The risk of load shedding can be reduced by following practical guidelines for reducing consumption. Eskom suggests hanging curtains to reduce heat loss and using foam tape to seal windows or doors in winter as draughts can account for up to 25% of heat loss. If you have a chimney, seal it with a dampener when not in use regularly. If the chimney isn’t used at all, seal it at the top and bottom, and install fire-retardant ceiling insulation to reduce up to 40% of heat loss. While it’s tempting to leave heaters on, the power utility suggests only heating the rooms you are occupying. In addition, gas heaters generate a great amount of heat while requiring no electricity at all.