Having made the announcement towards the end of last year, Toyota has silently released spec and pricing details of the smash-hit GR Yaris on its website. Easily one if not the most anticipated hot hatch of the year, the only variant of the XP210 Yaris to be sold in South Africa will be offered in two trim levels; standard and Rally with specification being the main differences. GR Yaris will only be offered with three-doors. Motivated by the most powerful three-cylinder petrol engine ever made, the GR developed 1.6-litre turbocharged three-pot, which will reportedly also power the forthcoming GR Corolla, has been upgraded for South Africa with outputs of 198kW/360Nm, two kilowatts down on the Japanese model but eight up on the European derivative, with the torque output lowered by 10 Nm overall. The rest of the drivetrain is unchanged though with the amount of twist going to all four wheels through an intricate four-wheel-drive system that does without a centre differential, via a six-speed manual gearbox. Top speed is pegged at 230 km/h with the 0-100 km/h dash taking 5.5 seconds. RELATED: It is coming! WRC honed Toyota GR Yaris confirmed for next year Standard on both models is a drive mode selector with three settings; Normal, Sport and Track with stopping power coming courtesy of a red painted four-piston brake caliper setup at the front and single at the rear with the discs measuring 356 mm and 297 mm respectively. Riding on what is essentially a hybrid TNGA platform comprising the standard Yaris’ GA-B and the bigger GA-C in order accommodate the all-paw gripping system that carries the GR-Four designation, the GR Yaris is mounted on 18-inch alloy wheels with a further dynamic inclusion being a limited slip rear differential on the Rally. GR Yaris interior In terms of equipment, both models come with the following as standard: Reserved for Rally is a Heads-Up Display along with: In total, four colours are available; Platinum White Pearl, Lunar Black, Glacier White and Fierce Red with a three year/100 000 km warranty and nine service/90 000 km standard across both models. As for pricing, the standard GR Yaris carries a sticker of R606 600 with the Rally priced at R715 600.