 Followers of Gary Player’s life story will know how much South Africa’s greatest golfer was affected by losing his mother at a young age, but ironically it has been the tragedy that connects him to one of this country’s best rising talents – Garrick Higgo. Player’s mother Muriel succumbed to cancer in 1943, when he was just eight years old. The last time he saw her was on Christmas Day; two days later she died. Player has said that something broke in him that day and he has been trying to fix it ever since, which partly explains the remarkable passion and tenacity of one of the hardest-working sports stars there has ever been. Higgo was introduced to golf by his father Guillermo, but in 2008, when he was just nine, the family, which includes two siblings, were involved in a car crash, hit by another vehicle, and his dad was fatally injured. “I met Gary Player just after that because we both had a holiday home at Plettenberg Bay and we used to play and practise a lot together; play nine holes in the afternoon. His Mom died when he was eight, which was around the age I was when I lost my dad. So we connected, it is a real and amazing connection, and it’s been there since before all the good things happened to me,” Higgo says of his remarkable friendship with someone more than sixty years his senior. “It was only when I was around 12 or 13 that I totally understood who Gary Player is. I would be watching the Majors and I would see Gary’s name always popping up. He calls me a lot and he has really helped my game and especially the mental aspects of it.” Seeing @garrick_higgo win his first PGA Tour event in only his second start has been one of the most enjoyable things for me to witness in my career. He is without a doubt the most humble, well mannered young man that you could wish to meet. Watch this space, big things to come! pic.twitter.com/US5Qho6bL3 — GARY PLAYER (@garyplayer) June 13, 2021  It is Higgo who is now playing in the Majors and the lessons Player, who won nine times on golf’s biggest stages, has imparted should stand him in very good stead. The 22-year-old made his Major debut in May at the PGA Championship and made the cut, before really getting to grips with the brutal Kiawah Island course with a 69 in the final round that saw him rise into a tie for 64th. In last weekend’s US Open at Torrey Pines, Higgo missed the cut by two strokes, but one should take into account the hectic build-up the Paul Roos Gymnasium product had to that tournament. In a way, Higgo was the victim of his own success as he won the Palmetto Championship the week before, in just his second PGA Tour start. And with a clearly emotional and overjoyed Player giving Higgo a phone call at the winner’s press conference, the US media understandably had a new sensation to focus on, especially given his three wins in the last year on the European Tour. “I don’t think I’ve ever in my lifetime been more excited about anybody winning a golf tournament.” Hall of Famer and fellow South African @GaryPlayer wasted no time congratulating @Garrick_Higgo. ???????? pic.twitter.com/pWmyvZtFtB — PGA TOUR (@PGATOUR) June 14, 2021  “It had an impact because I was very tired mentally, each one of my wins has changed my life and the one on the US PGA Tour the most significantly. My caddy, who is also my best friend, also had to fly back before the US Open because his wife went into labour. So I wasn’t exactly fresh going in, but I played alright and just had a couple of bad bounces,” Higgo said this week. “I’m learning from each week I play and it made it tough winning the week before the US Open. I didn’t play my best, I was mentally drained, I had a different caddy and I just missed the cut. And I’ve learnt so far in the Majors that you’ve got to have everything working, you have to do everything well. You can’t lose focus, if you are slightly off-line you will be punished. “But the more I play in the Majors, the better I’ll get. I need to tighten up on my misses and just get more comfortable with everything going on.” Naturally, he knows there is still plenty of room for improvement in his game as well. “A couple of things in my swing were a bit off so I went back to a draw, that’s the way I like to hit it, I’ve gone back to what is comfortable for me,” he said. “I’ve also had to work on my short-game technique because the pins are always tucked here in America; I needed to figure out how to get a lot more spin on my chips and get them shorter. “I would say my strengths are my mental game, putting and the short game, those are definitely my strongest suits, and my iron play has always been solid. I’m a little streaky off the tee though, I’m generally straight and can hit it a decent distance, but I would like to hit a lot more fairways.” With arguably the best mental mentor one could have in Player, Higgo certainly seems equipped with the right stuff to keep making waves in world golf. And armed with a simple philosophy, it is understandable why the left-hander has been able to win so quickly at every new rung of the golfing ladder he has climbed. “I treat every event the same, I don’t make them into big things, whether it’s a Big Easy Tour event or a PGA tournament, and I think that helps mentally. The other guys in a PGA event are obviously going to be better than those in a Big Easy tournament, but I don’t worry about them really, I’m just focused on my own game.” With the sort of start to his international career Higgo has made, it is the opposition who are surely going to be worrying about him more and more.