Having taken the wraps off the Santa Fe facelift less than a year ago, Hyundai has now released the South African market specification and pricing of its, for now, flagship SUV. Set to be succeeded by the Palisade at the sharp end of the Hyundai line up sometime this year, the Santa Fe rides on a new platform called Gen3 and measures 4 785 mm in overall length with its wheelbase coming to 2 765 mm, height to 1 710 mm and width to 1 900 mm. Providing seating for seven as before, the exterior revisions include the T graphic headlights first seen on the new Tucson and more recently the rear lights of the Santa Cruz, a redesigned jewelled grille and front bumper with vertical air inlets on the flanks, a new rear bumper and revised tail lights now connected by a central strip. Gen3 Santa Fe rear view. Just is prominent is the interior which derives heavily Palisade in not only the look of the centre console, but also the transmission tunnel where the gear lever is dropped for the same shift-by-wire button operated setup as the Palisade. Comprising just two models; Executive and Elite, both are powered by a reworked version of the familiar 2.2-litre turbodiesel engine, now punching out 148kW/441Nm. New though is the transmission itself, an eight-speed dual-clutch that replaces the old six-speed torque converter. While front-wheel-drive is the sole method of transferring power to the black stuff in the Executive, the Elite receives the HTRAC four-wheel-drive as standard, together with six driving modes; Eco, Comfort, Smart, Sport, Sand and Snow/Mud. Only the former quartet is available on the Executive. RELATED: Facelift Hyundai Santa Fe bows with dramatic face and new platform In terms of performance, both will top out at 205 km/h with the Executive getting from 0-100 km/h in nine seconds and the Elite in 9.2 seconds. Combined fuel consumption for both is 7.9 L/100 km. As for equipment, both models, in typical Hyundai fashion, are loaded to the brim, with the Executive boasting the following: The interior borrows from the Palisade in look and design On top of these, the Elite receives a 10.25-inch digital instrument cluster and swaps the 18-inch wheels for 19-inch alloys, while adding electrical adjustment to the passenger’s chair, Rear Seat Alert, heated and cooled front seats, a heated steering wheel, rear window blinds and a panoramic sunroof. A total of six colours are available: Included in the R769 500 asking price of the Executive and the Elite’s R869 500 sticker is a seven year/200 000 km warranty as well as a six year/90 000 km service plan.