Reality TV is becoming known as the fastest way to fame and a quick buck. This wasn’t any different for Russian part-time model and translator Vladislav Ivanov. Ivanov competed in a Chinese boyband competition, Produce Camp 2021. But he was recently booted from the show and you while would think he would be sad about this, think again. He was working as a translator when producers noticed he was good looking and asked him to join the show, The Guardian reported. Produce Camp 2021 is similar to singing competitions such as X-Factor and Idols but centred on groups rather than individuals. Singers perform against each other to train and eventually form an 11-member international boyband voted by the public. ALSO READ: SA artists, musicians to receive royalties from Tiktok Despite the perks of reality TV and the possibility of becoming a pop star, Ivanov wanted out. He wasn’t able to leave without breaching his contract and paying a fine. Instead of begging for votes, he asked viewers to send him home, purposely performing badly in order to be voted out. He would even write songs that were clear he didn’t want to be there, with lyrics such as “please don’t make me go to the finals, I’m tired”.  However, his attempts fell on deaf ears. Ivanov made it far in the competition, staying on for three months. People were incredulous as to why Ivanov thought this was “hell” and being “trapped”. lt sa caption HAHAHAHAHAHA ???????????? yasss thats our lelush, the most unique trainee in produce camp history ???? https://t.co/zQM0wQi90m — zky 姐姐 ???? (@hgferrer92) April 28, 2021  +like search up lelush produce camp and he’s so miserable the whole time and he doesn’t even try most of the time ???? ???? — ????⟭⟬ Yoongi’s² Butter Salad⁷???????? (@artaechim) April 29, 2021  Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby present to you the next level of “What the hell did I just read?” The Chinese edition. @thespybrief https://t.co/Zra7laecZf — 3:RJbrandenburg (@RJBrandenburg) April 28, 2021  these western media articles about lelush on produce camp make it sound a lot crazier than how it came off on the show as someone who watched the whole thing and voted for him lol — K-Y⁷ (@K_Y27) April 28, 2021 