It may not be something you want to think about as a parent; yet ill-health or even a disability can put you out of action for a period of time, thus impacting your ability to earn. When the ability to earn an income is compromised, even temporarily, affording the financial requirements in relation to your child’s education can become difficult. This is where an education protector benefit can be integrated into your life insurance plan and aid you in being able to continue funding your child’s education. The answer is ‘yes’ – it can be a very useful part of your overall financial planning as an income earner, especially if you’re the breadwinner of your household. Here is what you should take note of when considering a life insurance policy. In order to best enjoy the benefits of securing a child’s education prospects using life insurance products, maintaining a healthy state and lifestyle is imperative. As a parent, you can protect yourself against a life changing event that can result in financial difficulties; and protect the health state of your children with cover that helps to finance the best quality treatments available should ill-health directly affect them. With Discovery’s Global Education Protector: With the Child Protector Benefit: When you consider the level of emotional and financial strain that an unexpected event can cause on a family, protective cover like this can make a positive difference. Only for a limited time, qualifying clients taking up the Global Education Protector Benefit and Child Protector Benefit can get a guaranteed minimum funding amount of up to 50% for tertiary tuition fees. With Vitality, this funding amount can be increased up to 100% as you proactively engage with the programme, improving your overall health and wellness. Offer only valid until 30 June 2021. Learn more about Discovery’s Life insurance plan options and rewards here. Disclaimer Discovery Life Limited. Registration number 1966/003901/06, is a licensed insurer, an authorised financial services and a registered credit provider, NCR Reg No. NCRCP3555. No liability will be accepted for the effect of any future legislative or regulatory changes. Product rules, terms and conditions apply.