Springbok coach Jacques Nienaber was a bit crabby over the ill-discipline his team showed in the first half, but otherwise he pronounced himself satisfied with the way they had gone in the first Test against Georgia at Loftus Versfeld on Friday night. A string of penalties in the first quarter allowed Georgia to lead 9-5 and denied the Springboks much momentum. But once they gave themselves a foothold in the game with two tries in the last five minutes of the first half, they took a firm grip on the match in a rock-solid second half that saw South Africa ultimately win 40-9. “The discipline was poor in the first half, but you have to credit Georgia as well because they put us under pressure until the back end of the first half,” Nienaber said after his debut Test as head coach. ALSO READ:  Rusty Boks make pleasing return to Test action “We all knew they would bring physicality but they caught us a little bit in the first 20 minutes. But that’s exactly why we were desperate to play a Test, we wanted a nice physical battle and we couldn’t have asked for better opposition for that. “With no marker because we haven’t played for 20 months, it was difficult to know where we are at, but now we have a starting point. “I don’t have worries but obviously we will work on the things that aren’t good and we probably have to improve in everything. We saw a notable change, what we wanted to see, in the second half when we imposed our game-plan on them more.” ALSO READ:  On tour with the Lions: Classy players, embarrassing moments It was the Springbok forwards who bore the brunt of the responsibility for softening up the Georgians and captain Siya Kolisi said he was happy with the way his team responded. “We didn’t hold back but we did not start as well as we wanted, we couldn’t get our maul and scrum going at the start, which is most important for us, we will never hide away from the set-pieces being important for us,” Kolisi said. “Our discipline let us down too. But we wanted the same 2019 physicality and to be the warriors, do the things that don’t require talent, that’s what we wanted to see today. “We knew what Georgia are capable of and it was most important that we beat them and we responded well in the second half. But we need better discipline and we want to impose ourselves on the opposition more as individuals. We responded well but we still left a couple of opportunities out there.”