President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation on Sunday evening and announced adjustments to the current level 4 restrictions. He also said school closures will be extended. Ramaphosa said all schools will remain closed until 26 July 2021. During the previous address, the president announced schools would begin closing from Wednesday, 30 June, with all schools to close entirely by Friday. At the time, a back-to-school date was not confirmed. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga, however, said the previously gazetted guidelines states schools should reopen on July 19. Ramaphosa said all parties involved “are working to rebuild our economy together so that more jobs can be created, so that more businesses can be supported, and so we can put food on the table, send our children to school and support our families”. #COVID19SA | "Schools will remain closed until the 26th of July." – President @CyrilRamaphosa #Level4 #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/llCprSESdL— South African Government (@GovernmentZA) July 11, 2021 Back in June, Motshekga said she was aware of how the constraints of the pandemic impacted learners. The team would monitor the spread of the third wave and adjusted the schedule if the need arises, she said. “We agree that we have to monitor the virus and get advice from the Health Department. […] We will not be irresponsible and we will take the decision close to and continue to plan.” Other restrictions remain in place, including the ban on alcohol sales for both onsite and offsite consumption, as well as the ban on social, religious or political gatherings. Restaurants and other eateries, however, are allowed to serve up to a maximum of 50 people indoors, and no more than 50% of capacity for smaller venues. Non-essential establishments are still required to close by 9pm. Curfews remain in place from 9pm to 4am. Ramaphosa said, “we know that curfews reduce movement and limit the late-night social gathering that increases the potential for transmission”. READ MORE HERE: Ramaphosa extends Level 4 lockdown for another 14 days President #Ramaphosa: A curfew remains in place from 9pm until 4am, and only those with permission to do so may leave their homes during this time. pic.twitter.com/ONQjGRGrPU— Presidency | South Africa ???????? (@PresidencyZA) July 11, 2021  