President Ramaphosa announced on Sunday that South Africa was moving back to adjusted alert Level 4 Covid-19 regulations for at least 14 days. But, according to the Flight Centre Travel Group, even though leisure travel in and out of Gauteng is prohibited, international travel is still permitted. Andrew Stark, MD of the Flight Centre Travel Group, Middle East and Africa says: “We have received many queries regarding transiting through Gauteng, students returning to their place of residence or campus and international travel from the province. “As the information stands and as outlined in the Government Gazette, passengers are allowed to travel internationally from Gauteng, or travel through Gauteng to their final destination. Of course, all protocols need to be strictly observed. In addition, even though travelers are allowed to travel to and from the airport during curfew, we can expect some changes to airline schedules over the coming weeks.” With things being rather unpredictable at this stage, it is good to know there are live platforms like this Covid-19 Travel Map from the Flight Centre Travel Group. Skyscanner.net also has a live platform providing travelers with the latest information on which countries are open for South Africans to travel to, which documents you might need and whether you will be required to quarantine. While Mexico, Costa Rica and Albania allow South African travelers to enter the country without having to quarantine and without having to present proof of a negative Covid-19 test before entering, most countries require South Africans to test before travel. Read: Government dropped the ball on Covid-19 vaccines. Here’s why I won’t. A PCR test is one of the travel requirements that is non-negotiable for most countries South Africans may enter the following countries, provided that the relevant country’s Covid-19 restrictions are adhered to. When you travel to these countries, in most cases you will be required to quarantine and they will need to see proof of a negative Covid-19 test no older than 72 days before you can enter. It is recommended that you double check the country’s requirements and restrictions. According to Flight Centre’s Covid-19 Travel Map, popular countries like Mauritius, Seychelles, US, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Scotland, Madagascar, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Russia and more are all still closed to South African travelers. According to Ampath Laboratories, the time samples are taken to the time you receive your Covid-19 test results could take up to 48 hours. To meet the travel time test requirements, you need to ensure that the date and time of your specimen collection, testing and reporting of your test results are within 72 hours of your departure date and time. It recommends that you double check the specific country’s requirements as some countries require that the test be done as soon as 48 hours before departure. The 2021 Covid-19 PCR test from Ampath costs R850 including VAT. You can find an Ampath test site closest to you here. Alternatively, you can also get tested through Corporate Traveller’s preferred Covid-19 testing partners: You can find more information on the required business travel documents for traveling abroad during Alert Level 4 here.