Eskom on Sunday announced load reduction would be implemented across six provinces to “avoid network overloading in high-density areas”. Unfortunately, this means some residents will miss out on President Ramaphosa’s family meeting. The load reduction comes at the same time as President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to address the nation SA’s response to the third wave and a possible level 4 lockdown extension. Power cuts have been scheduled in Gauteng, Free State, KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape, Limpopo and North East between 5pm and 10pm on Sunday. Ramaphosa’s address has been scheduled for 8pm on Sunday. This follows after the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC) met earlier today to discuss and review the current level 4 restrictions. South Africa has seen an increase in both new cases and fatalities, with figures now exceeding those recorded during the previous two waves READ MORE HERE: Family meeting confirmed: Ramaphosa to address the nation on Sunday Eskom warns that overloading of the electrical grid “can damage electricity infrastructures by causing explosions of transformers and mini-substations”. “To avoid overloading the Eskom network and damage to infrastructure in high-density areas prone to network overloading, Eskom will implement load reduction during peak evening hours”. Eskom urges all customers to report meter bypasses, illegal connections and vandalism of electricity infrastructure on the Eskom Crime Line, 0800 11 27 22. Load reduction in Gauteng will take place between 5pm and 10pm. Load reduction in North West will take place between 5pm and 10pm. Power outages in Limpopo will take place between 5pm and 9pm. Mopani District: Load reduction in the Cape Coastal cluster of the Eastern Cape will take place between 5pm and 10pm in the the Alfred Nzo District. Load reduction in the Free State will take place between 5pm and 8 pm. The following areas in the Thabo Mofutsanyana District will be affected: Now read: Load shedding stages explained – What you need to know Load reduction in KwaZulu-Natal will take place between 6pm and 8pm. Compiled by Cheryl Kahla 