As of Monday, South Africa has recorded a total of 2 206 781 positive cases of Covid-19, the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD), a division of the National Health Laboratory Service, has announced. The country has also identified 11 182 new Covid-19 cases since the last report. This increase represents a 31.4% positivity rate. The majority of new cases today are from Gauteng (50%), followed by Western Cape (11%). KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo accounted for 9% each; Mpumalanga accounted for 8%; North West accounted for 5%; Eastern Cape accounted for 4%; Free State accounted for 2%, and Northern Cape accounted for 1% of today’s new cases, said the NICD. A further 220 COVID-19 related deaths have been reported, bringing total fatalities to 64 509 to date. 13 937 470 tests have been conducted in both public and private sectors, while there has been an increase of 571 hospital admissions in the past 24 hours. The Covid pandemic caused an estimated 18 percent increase in the number of people facing hunger, a UN report released on Monday found, dealing a massive setback to efforts to ensure everyone has access to food. The world was already off track to achieve its goal of eradicating hunger by 2030, but the report warned that Covid had now sent it back in the wrong direction. The “economic downturns as a consequence of Covid-19 containment measures all over the world have contributed to one of the largest increases in world hunger in decades,” said the annual food security and nutrition report compiled by several UN agencies. Although the full impact of the pandemic cannot yet be determined, the report estimated around 118 million more people faced hunger in 2020 than in 2019, an increase of 18 percent. The rise in moderate or severe food insecurity was equal to the previous five years combined. “Nearly one in three people in the world (2.37 billion) did not have access to adequate food in 2020 — an increase of almost 320 million people in just one year,” the report said. One in 10 people were undernourished. The increase in hunger was widespread as the economic downturn affected almost all low- and middle-income countries. But the biggest impact was in countries where there were also climate-related disasters or conflict, or both. “The Covid-19 pandemic is just the tip of the iceberg,” said the report. “More alarmingly, the pandemic has exposed the vulnerabilities forming in our food systems over recent years as a result of major drivers such as conflict, climate variability and extremes, and economic slowdowns and downturns.” The UN agencies said there is a unique opportunity to reverse the dynamic this year however, thanks to two major food and nutrition summits plus the COP26 meeting on climate change. The report was jointly published by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), the UN World Food Programme (WFP) and the World Health Organization (WHO).