Picture: Neil McCartney Motorists will feel the pinch at the pumps this month following Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy Gwede Mantashe’s announcement of the adjusted fuel prices. The price of 93 unleaded and leaded petrol will increase by 29c/l, while 95 unleaded and leaded petrol will see an increase of 26c/l. Amabutho walk past MKMVA members at the entrance to the Zuma homestead in Nkandla, KwaZulu-Natal. This comes after the former president was found guilty of contempt of court by the Constitutional Court. Zuma has been sentenced to 15 months imprisonment. Picture: Gallo Images Police Minister Bheki Cele says arrests will be made after the non-compliance with the Disaster Management Act, and defiance of the Covid-19 regulations outside former president Jacob Zuma’s Nkandla homestead in KwaZulu-Natal. JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA – AUGUST 21: Atul Gupta at the launch of ANN7 news channel on August 21, 2013, in Johannesburg, South Africa. (Photo by Gallo Images / Sunday Times / James Oatway) They can keep running, but hiding will become much harder now for the Gupta family, since the issuance of a Red Notice by the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol). The National Prosecuting Authority’s Investigative Directorate (ID) on Monday morning confirmed that Interpol has issued Red Notices for the infamous Gupta brothers, their spouses, and four others. The Southern African Development Community delegation. Picture: Twitter The Southern African Development Community (SADC) Organ on Politics, Defence & Security (Troika) concluded its preliminary engagements with the eSwatini government and civil society representatives. Members of the ANC, MKMVA and Amabutho escort former president Jacob Zuma at his Nkandla residence on Saturday. Zuma as found guilty of contempt of court by the Constitutional Court and has been sentenced to 15 months imprisonment. Picture: Gallo Images AmaZulu traditional prime minister, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, says while he sympathises with Jacob Zuma, the former president is not the first leader to be sent to prison. Buthelezi briefed the media on Monday, after scores of Zuma’s supporters flocked to Nkandla in KwaZulu-Natal over the weekend to stand in solidarity with the former president. Goodman Mosele is one of Orlando Pirates’ new signings. Picture: Steve Haag/BackpagePix. Orlando Pirates on Monday announced four new signings ahead of the 2021/22 campaign, including last season’s Glad Africa Championship top goalscorer Monnapule Saleng and former Maritzburg United, Bidvest Wits and Cape Town City defender Kwanda Mngonyama. 