As praiseworthy as Ireland’s brilliant display in the second ODI was, Proteas captain Temba Bavuma made it clear that he was not fine with the dismal performance his team produced in the field. After South Africa won the toss and were able to bowl first, they were poor in the opening powerplay and dreadful at the death, conceding 95 runs in the last eight overs. Their fielding was also terrible, four catches that should have been taken were dropped and there were several fumbles and misfields. “We were totally outplayed but the fielding was not the standard that we pride ourselves on and those dropped catches were always going to be costly,” Bavuma said after the shock 43-run defeat in Dublin on Tuesday. ALSO READ:  Proteas shocked by Ireland in second ODI “Bowling short and wide is never the plan, I’d like to give the bowlers the benefit of the doubt and say it was down to execution. But it’s happening all too often that we find ourselves trying to defend both sides of the field. “In the death bowling there just hasn’t been any consistency, which makes it hard to set a plan. We’ve had enough conversations about it, we’ve exhausted those conversations now and we need to show it in action now. “We trust these guys, but they must be able to bowl to a plan. We know there are guys on the sidelines who have the skills, so there is now a strong case for them getting an opportunity.” The batting, especially the middle-order, could also see changes beyond the expected return of Quinton de Kock. On the bright side, Janneman Malan’s 84 off 96 balls showed that he is a young batsman who watches and learns from all that is going on around him. The 25-year-old has made a great start to his ODI career with 306 runs in five innings, including a century and now his second half-century. “It was quite nerve-wracking because I haven’t had a lot of games or been able to get momentum, and it’s in different conditions,” Malan said. “But watching Ireland bat twice before I had my first time at the crease gave me a bit of info and I was able to take all the learnings. Chasing 290, at halfway we were on a good path, Rassie van der Dussen and I had set it up well. “But it would have been great if I could have batted through. I needed to get a big hundred, so I failed the team in that respect.”