A huge forest blaze raging in Cyprus has killed four people, destroyed homes and forced evacuations of villages as Greece, Israel and other countries deployed fire-fighting aircraft to the Mediterranean island. The fire began Saturday afternoon and has swept through districts in the southern foothills of the Troodos mountains as the country grapples with a blistering heatwave. South Cyprus appeals for help as huge wildfire rips through forest. Northern Cyprus and Turkey offered assistance, but the Southern Cyprus regime refused. While S.Cypriot administration asks for help from the European Union and Israel for firefighting efforts. pic.twitter.com/sqIGfmLh7V — TULPAR (@TULPAR1453) July 4, 2021  “It is a tragedy,” President Nicos Anastasiades said on Twitter, describing it as “the largest fire since 1974” when the island was divided after Turkey occupied its northern third. The blaze had caused “loss of life” and destroyed property and forest lands, Anastasiades said, adding that “the government will provide immediate assistance to the victims and the families of the victims. A firefighter uses his mobile phone in village of Vavatsinia in the Larnaca district of Cyprus, as efforts continue to control a giant wildfire raging in the mountainous are, during the night of July 3, 2021. (Photo by Iakovos Hatzistavrou / AFP) “We will not leave anyone abandoned in the destruction of the fire.” Interior Minister Nicos Nouris said that four charred bodies were found outside the village of Odos in Larnaca district. “Forensic examiners are going to the scene for identification,” he told reporters on Sunday. “All the indications support the fact that these are the four missing persons we have been searching for since yesterday,” he said, adding that all four are thought to be Egyptian nationals. The daily Phileleftheros newspaper said their bodies were found about 400 metres (yards) from their burnt-out vehicle. A 67-year-old man had been arrested on suspicion he started the blaze. He was seen by an eyewitness leaving the village of Arakapas in his car at the same time the fire started there on Saturday, police said. Anastasiades visited a crisis management centre in the village of Vavatsinia, located a few kilometres east of the blaze, on Sunday morning, before heading to areas ravaged by the flames, according to the CNA news agency. People in the village of Vavatsinia in the Larnaca district of Cyprus, watch as a giant wildfire rages on the nearby hills during the night of July 3, 2021. (Photo by Iakovos Hatzistavrou / AFP) He said the area destroyed by fire exceeded 55 square kilometres (21 square miles), adding that the blaze appeared largely contained but could resurge. “The high temperatures and the wind are our biggest dangers,” he said. Firefighters were seen along the road leading to Vavatsinia and several helicopters hovered above the fire as a thick grey smoke obscured the sky in much of the south of the island. An AFP correspondent in the village of Ora reported seeing several burned out homes. Janez Lenarcic, European Commissioner for Crisis Management, said on Saturday its “aerial firefighting capacity” had been mobilised, with Italy and Greece sending planes to help. Two other firefighting planes were scheduled to take off from Israel. Israel’s firefighting authority said that the planes were due to land in Larnaca, where they would join the Italian and Greek teams and also Spanish and British crews. Cyprus has experienced extended heatwaves and periods of drought in recent years. In the past few days, the temperature has hit 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit) inland and there has been very little rain since mid-April.