The Presidency confirmed late Sunday afternoon that President Cyril Ramaphosa will address the nation today, to share developments in the country’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ramaphosa’s address has been scheduled for 8pm on Sunday. This follows after the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC) met earlier today to discuss and review the current level 4 restrictions. South Africa has seen an increase in both new cases and fatalities, with figures now exceeding those recorded during the previous two waves. President @CyrilRamaphosa will address the nation at 20h00 today, Sunday, 11 July 2021, on developments in the country’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. ALSO READ: Level 4: Here’s why the experts say lockdown should be extended While we, as a country, have been debating amongst ourselves whether the level 4 restrictions would be lifted or extended, the City Press dropped a bombshell announcement on Sunday: It’s already been decided two weeks ago. Ramaphosa and the Cabinet had allegedly decided on a 21-day Level 4 lockdown two weeks ago, when he addressed the nation. He only announced a 14-day extension to “manage concerns from the business community.” Recall also the Bureau of Economic Research (BER) releasing its latest forecast earlier this week, citing economists assessment that the recent spike in Covid-19 cases “should influence whether the government decides on an extension”. READ MORE HERE: Level 4 lockdown regulations already confirmed The Delta variant has been driving the third wave of infections in Gauteng and the Western Cape, with the other provinces not far behind. Earlier this week, Professor Tom Moultrie from the University of Cape Town said other provinces “are also showing strong signs of an increase in infections”, while Professor Tulio de Oliveira said Gauteng is “not out of the woods” yet. Right to Care CEO and ministerial advisory committee member professor Ian Sanne told The Sunday Times’ Claire Keeton his team was “extremely concerned” about the spread of the virus in Limpopo and Mpumalanga in particular, as well as the North West.