A final report, by former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, on whether the current conditions during lockdown is conducive or not to hold free and fair elections is expected to be completed and handed to the Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) by 21 July. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that the local government elections would be held on 27 October. However, there have been concerns about how such elections would be held during the Covid-19 pandemic. On 20 May, the IEC revealed that Moseneke had been tasked to lead an inquiry, which would evaluate whether the current conditions would allow for free and fair elections. ALSO READ: ANC in Joburg ‘humbled’ by voters’ support in by-elections In a statement on Thursday, Moseneke said the process was already underway and that he had an information session with political parties represented in the National Party Liaison Committee. “In this discussion, representatives of the political parties pledged their support for this inquiry, and I had the opportunity to convey to them how the inquiry will be conducted,” Moseneke said. The former deputy chief justice also revealed some of the salient features of the terms of reference for the inquiry, which include: Those invited to make submissions include: The inquiry will also hear oral submissions from invited stakeholders in the week commencing Monday, 28 June 2021. “Should any member of the public or civic organisations choose to make submissions, they may notify us and make submissions no later than Friday, 18 June 2021. Details of the website of the inquiry, as well as various means for the public to make submissions, will be made known in the near future.” ALSO READ: Will local government elections be delayed? The final report will be handed to the commission by 21 July, before the date of the minister’s proclamation of the local government elections. “This matter is of obvious public concern and importance,” Moseneke said. “For that reason, this inquiry will be as transparent as possible, and the submissions made to it, both orally and in writing, will be made accessible to all stakeholders and the public at large.”