The world of lifestyle and entertainment has been busy as always, as a few old faces reappeared in the spotlight for unfortunately not good reasons, while Mohale and Somizi fans finally got the answers they wanted. You wanted to know, so we finally got the answer for you! Mohale Motaung’s marriage to superstar Somizi Mhlongo has been much talked about. There hasn’t been clarity for months as to their material status. Amid constant reports of a spilt, trouble in paradise and cheating allegations, Mohale finally cleared the air. Speaking to The Citizen, the actor said he’s “not getting a divorce”. “Marriages go through some things, ups and downs,” adding that perception has been a big factor. “People take what they see and they run with it. There was just a phase like any other couple, we are not getting a divorce. Things are okay.”    Watch the video above for all the latest on what happened and what other celebrities had to say. Mohale also talked about his rising acting career and the perception he doesn’t need to work as hard as other actors to get work because of his relationship with Somizi. READ HERE: Mohale: ‘Marriages go through ups and downs’, but I’m not divorcing Somizi Makhadzi’s sexually suggestive dance with another man has received mixed reactions. While performing Makhadzi calls a man from the crowd to dance with her. The two trade what can only be described as sexual, flirtatious and even perverted dance moves, as Makhadzi suggestively touches the man’s private parts. The South African Music Awards (Samas) distanced itself from any suggestion it was involved in sharing the video. This was theorised by fans after the video went viral and trended on Twitter. READ NEXT: Samas slam Makhadzi fan theory about sharing video as ‘absurd’ Friends: The Reunion, the award-winning and star-studded cast with Matthew Perry, Lisa Kudrow, David Schwimmer, Jennifer Aniston and Matt LeBlanc, reunited on the original Friends studio. Fans have been asking for this since the last episode aired 17 years ago. To find out how it went down, read here: ‘Friends: The Reunion’ has aired! Here’s what to expect without spoilers South African fans can catch the reunion on Showmax on 31 May.