 Defending champions Club Brugge need only a draw away against Anderlecht to win the Belgian title but could be crowned before kick off if Genk do not beat Antwerp. More details at www.soccer6.co.za SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAY Thursday 20 May S10 V1 M1 Lecce vs Venezia: Second leg of the Serie B promotion playoff semi-final. The aggregate winner take son either Cittadella or Monza in a two-legged tie for a place in the top flight of Italian football. M2 Malmo FF vs IF Elfsborg: Last season Malmo won the Swedish league with Elfsborg nine points behind in second place. Elfsborg held Malmo to a 1-1 draw on their last visit in August last year. M3 Racing Genk vs Royal Antwerp: Genk’s win on Saturday over Anderlecht keeps their Belgian title hopes alive. Antwerp lost 4-1 on their last visit to Genk in December. M4 Malaga vs Girona: Malaga have won their last two meetings with Girona, who are chasing a place in the top six of the Spanish second division and a place in the post-season promotion playoffs. M5 Sporting Gijon vs Las Palmas: Gijon have won all of the last four visits made by Las Palmas. Gijon are headed to the post-season playoffs in the Spanish second tier. M6 Tranmere Rovers vs Morecambe: This is the second of the League Two semi-final first leg playoffs. Rovers have won three of their last four clashes against Morecambe. M7 Aarhus GF vs Brondby: AGF are unbeaten in their last four clashes with Brondby, winning twice at home and drawing twice away. M8 Anderlecht vs Club Brugge: Brugge could retain their Belgian league crown if they win this game. Anderlecht have won only one of their past 10 meetings with Brugge. M9 Rayo Vallecano vs Real Oviedo: Three of the past four matches between these two clubs have ended in draws. Rayo Vallecano are still in the race for a Spanish second division post-season promotion playoff place. M10 Real Zaragoza vs Castellon: After three successive draws, Zaragoza’s battle against the drop was boosted by a weekend win at Las Palmas. Castellon are in threat of relegation after two points from their last four games. Suggested permutation: R8.00 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 2,3 x 2,3 x 1 x 1