With the wraps having come off in August last year, Kia has finally revealed spec and pricing details of the all-new Sonet. Built alongside the Seltos at the Anantapur Plant in the state of Andra Pradesh, the Sonet arrives on the back of the reveals of its home-grown rivals, the Nissan Magnite, Toyota Urban Cruiser and Suzuki Vitara Brezza, and very soon, the Renault Kiger with the segment-leading Ford EcoSport being the other contender. Rear Despite appearing similar to the Indian model, the Sonet boasts an overall length of 4 120 mm, which eclipses not only its rivals, but also its sibling in that it no longer falls within the sub-four metre regulations. Its dimensions are concluded by a wheelbase of 2 500 mm, height of 1 610 mm and width of 1 710 mm. Claimed boot space is 392-litres. RELATED: Kia’s new Sonet finally written in full For South Africa, the Sonet will derive motivation from a solitary petrol engine; an 85kW/144Nm 1.5 not offered in the Indian model, but used by sister brand Hyundai in the Creta. Drive is routed to the front wheels via a six-speed manual gearbox or an optional CVT. In terms of specification, two trim grades are available with features on the entry-level LX comprising: Building on this, the range-topping EX swaps the steel wheels for 16-inch alloys while also adding a leather wrapped steering wheel and gear lever, satin silver roof rails, rear parking sensors and front fog lamps to the mix. Eight-inch touchscreen infotainment system is standard across the range. In total, seven colours are available; Glacier White, Aurora Black, Steel Silver, Gravity Grey, Beige Gold, Intelligency Blue and Intense Red with buyers also having the option of four two-tone hues; Glacier White and Intense Red match with a black roof or Gravity Grey and Intelligency Blue contrasted by a white roof. Comprising four models, all variants come as standard with a five year/unlimited km warranty plus a four year/60 000 km service plan. PRICING Sonet 1.5 LX Manual – R264 995 Sonet 1.5 LX CVT – R285 995 Sonet 1.5 EX Manual – R284 995 Sonet 1.5 EX CVT – R305 995