 Hugo Broos has dropped captain Thulani Hlatshwayo from his first Bafana Bafana squad to face Uganda in an international friendly at Orlando Stadium on June 10. ALSO READ: Pitso explains why he rejected Bafana offer Hlatshwayo has been struggling this season at Orlando Pirates, but his omission still comes as a major surprise from the Belgian 69 year-old, who has named a 19-man squad to take on the Cranes. “I was getting a lot of information in the last few days, I talked with my assistant (Helman Mkhalele is the new Bafana head coach) and I made a list, I didn’t look at who was captain,” said Broos. “I just wanted a good list, it is for the first time and we will see. In September (for the start of the 2022 Fifa World Cup qualifiers) there will be other names, I am sure, and maybe the captain will be there again. I also heard he didn’t have a good season, but he is not forgotten.” Broos has also omitted the Chiefs’ veteran goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune, instead including young shot-stopper Bruce Bvuma, who was part of Bafana’s squad at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. “I think in the future we need a young ‘keeper, I saw the (Champions League) game between Chiefs and Simba, I got there early because I wanted to see him warming up. I was impressed by what he was doing and in the game he was also good, so we have given him a chance to show what he can do with Bafana.” Broos has not named many members of the South African Under-23 side that will play in the Tokyo Olympic games July, which might appear to go against his promise to create a younger Bafana, but this is because the Under-23s will be playing in a competition in Dubai. “There is a tournament in Dubai from May 10 to June 12, and I can see the project made (by David Notoane), with the team qualifying for the Olympics. I don’t want to take the players for only one game,” said Broos, who does nonetheless have SuperSport midfielders Teboho Mokoena and Sipho Mbule in his Bafana squad. Goalkeepers: Ronwen Williams, Bruce Bvuma Defenders: Rivaldo Coetzee, Nkosinathi Sibisi, Mosa Lebusa, Rushine De Reuck, Innocent Maela, Craig Martin, Aubrey Modiba, Sibusiso Mabiliso. Midfielders: Thabang Monare, Mothobi Mvala, Sipho Mbule, Keagan Dolly, Teboho Mokoena, Lebo Maboe. Strikers: Bongokuhle Hlongwane, Percy Tau, Thabiso Kutumela