Finance Minister Tito Mboweni may have not heeded the call by tired cooks and foodies on social media to brush up his cooking skills. Mboweni enjoys posting supper dishes he has made after a long day at the office. In the past, the main ingredients in the minister’s dishes have always included plenty of garlic, tomatoes, peppers, tinned fish and curry powder. But Mboweni in the past few weeks has cut back on sharing his joyful dishes, as they always cause public outrage and fraction. Coming back in style, the cook wasn’t impressed this time by his own dish, a beef stew. I tried to cook beef stew this evening. It did not work out. Naaa!???????? pic.twitter.com/8OKLeSnulS — Tito Mboweni (@tito_mboweni) May 18, 2021  Garlic is usually chopped or diced before adding, but one of Mboweni’s trademarks is cooking them whole and this stew was no different. And that Somizi lesson, seems like it never happened. RELATED: Somizi ‘finds’ Tito Mboweni – are cooking lessons in the works? But many tweeps were wondering where the star of the dish was, the beef? There were loads of other vegetables, oil and barely any beef. Isn’t beef supposed to be the main ingredient of beef stew? pic.twitter.com/gzS4hpXjiW — Molatelo Sephesu (@Molatelosephesu) May 18, 2021  What the ANC promises VS what it delivers????‍ pic.twitter.com/NJs6rCQEBf — T.I Molefe (@TottsM) May 18, 2021  Stick to tin fish , this beef stew has heartburn written all over it pic.twitter.com/61FnKB5prE — Javas (@JabulaniMnguni) May 18, 2021  Suggestions were made for Mboweni’s next attempt, adding that spices, herbs and a different cooking method would help. Twitter user Wandile J posted: “I suggest you have a cup of water on hand when cooking, it prevents you from using so much oil. Also finely chop all the vegetables, if that’s too much for you then you can also just blend them. Make sure you cook your tomatoes well before adding the meat.” you can add your spices, herbs etc at this point. It’s also very important that you be mindful of the heat of your stove. You want to fry the veggies on medium/ medium high. When you’re cooking the meat, it must be on low. You’re gonna cook it for quite a while so it gets… — Paris Geller. (@_WandileJ) May 18, 2021 