SA Rugby on Friday confirmed that tickets bought for the Lions Series through the authorised ticketing platform (tickets.lionstour2021.co.za) would be eligible for a full refund. The assurance was given following the announcement of a revised schedule to minimise the risks of disruption that could be caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Ticket holders who made their purchases as part of the travel packages from SA Rugby Travel or Lions Rugby Travel will receive an email from their respective agent explaining their options. Purchasers of hospitality packages will be contacted by email in respect of their refunds. Refunds to ticket holders will be made automatically. Ticket holders will have first right to buy tickets for the revised schedule if the South African Government announces the lifting of restrictions in sufficient time to deliver the necessary safety protocols. ALSO READ: New schedule: Lions to roar in three SA cities only Ticketing FAQ: A: No. Tickets bought from tickets.lionstour2021.co.za will automatically be refunded to the payment card used. A: The processing of refunds will be concluded by the end of May. Please note that when refunds reflect on your statement it may reflect the day of initial purchase. A: Fans with expired payment cards will be contacted directly by customer service staff should their refund fail. Manual refunds will take up to 14 days from the date of receipt of the ticket holders direct deposit information. Note that ticket holders do not need to contact our customer service team. A: Our Customer service staff will monitor the refunds process and those customers’ refunds that are not successful will be contacted by Customer Service to update records. A: No A: Yes A: There is no need to claim. Tickets bought from tickets.lionstour2021.co.za will automatically be refunded to the payment card used. A: Please contact the official retailer directly. Their details are at this link https://tickets.lionstour2021.co.za/showNews.html?idNews=3url If you made the purchase through an unofficial re-seller you will need to check their T&Cs. A: Unfortunately not, but ticket holders will have a first right to buy tickets if the South African Government permits attendance at sporting events before the Castle Lager Lions Series commences. For further information: https://tickets.lionstour2021.co.za/showNews.html?idNews=10