The Military Command Council (MCC) has seemingly refused to cooperate with the Public Protector in her office’s investigation into the SANDF’s procurement of the supposed Covid-19 treatment, Interferon, from Cuba. “It is true that the Public Protector has not received cooperation. Having tried to ensure cooperation through our soft powers, we will now consider resorting to hard powers. These include issuing a subpoena,” PP spokesperson Oupa Segwale said yesterday. Kobus Marais, the DA’s spokesperson on defence, said yesterday the party had been reliably informed that despite enquiries letters submitted by the office of the public protector and a final reminder sent on Friday, the MCC has yet to provide any information. The information is related to the alleged irregular procurement of Interferon, also known as Heberon Alpha-2B, which the SANDF intended to use as a Covid-19 treatment for its troops. This was despite the medication not being registered for use in that capacity by the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA). “It should be noted that SAHPRA has supplied all the necessary documentation to further the investigation,” Marais said in a statement. He said the MCC was bound by the same Constitution and rule of law. Despite this, he said, it seemed Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula’s leadership had led the SANDF top tier to believe their “foolish” actions would be without consequence. Marais said they encouraged the office of the public protector to make full use of the law and subpoena the SANDF if the MCC fails to respond timeously. “The continued state of disaster does not give SANDF the right to treat South Africa as its own personal playground. It certainly does not give the MCC the right to abuse its budget and endeavour to experiment on our soldiers. It’s time those in power realise the responsibility those positions come with,” he added. SANDF spokesperson Siphiwe Dlamini said he was not aware the public protector could not get information from the MCC and said the matter would be followed up. siphom@citizen.co.za