The Springboks will make their return to the Rugby Championship with two home Tests against Argentina in August, before embarking on a four-match tour of Australasia, according to the 2021 tournament schedule announced by Sanzaar on Friday. This year’s 12-match tournament will see two matches played in South Africa, five in Australia and five in New Zealand. The Tests in South Africa will see Argentina play the Springboks twice before both teams head to Australia and New Zealand for the remainder of the tournament. The match schedule has been amended to accommodate the ongoing effects of the pandemic, including continued international travel restrictions and government quarantine protocols that exist within the member union territories. It was hoped that the 2021 Rugby Championship, as announced last year, would comprise the four national teams playing each other on a home or away basis through a new mini-tour match schedule. ALSO READ: Euro final: ‘Kolbe one of biggest X-factor players in world’ However, the pandemic makes this impossible at present and as a result, the 12-match tournament will be played in South Africa, Australia and New Zealand, with the Springboks making their return to the competition after missing out in 2020, when all the matches were hosted in Australia. According to the 2021 schedule, the Springboks open their campaign against Argentina on Saturday 14 August, a week after the conclusion of the Lions Series, before the second Test against the Pumas on 21 August, before travelling to Australia. Next on the fixture list are the Wallabies, on 11 and 18 September, before the Springboks conclude their commitments with two Tests against the All Blacks in New Zealand on consecutive weekends – 25 September and 2 October. Rassie Erasmus, Director of Rugby, said in his reaction to the draw the Springboks are delighted at the prospects of resuming their rivalry with their southern hemisphere opponents. “Following the unfortunate Covid-related disruptions of last year, we are very much looking forward to resume playing against the Pumas, Wallabies and the All Blacks,” said Erasmus. “There is a great rivalry between us, but we also have a lot of respect for each other and have built good friendships over many years of southern hemisphere competition. “Playing the All Blacks in their backyard is a massive challenge, Argentina showed their growing stature last year while the Wallabies are always tough opponents, especially on their home turf.” ALSO READ: Sharks to hold back on unleashing Mapimpi on Rainbow Cup Following two home internationals against Georgia and the three-Test Lions Series, the Tests against Argentina will give Springbok head coach Jacques Nienaber his first bite of southern hemisphere action. “The two Tests against Argentina take the number of Springbok home matches this year to seven, which makes it an exciting but challenging home programme for us,” said Nienaber. “We are grateful to all involved, at Sanzaar and SA Rugby, for the hard work being done to make this all possible, keeping in mind all the current pandemic difficulties.” All the match venues and kick-off times will be announced by the host nations in due course. Saturday 14 August Springboks v Argentina (South Africa) Saturday 21 August Argentina v Springboks (South Africa) Australia v New Zealand (Australia) Saturday 28 August New Zealand v Australia (New Zealand) Saturday 4 September – bye week Saturday 11 September New Zealand v Argentina (New Zealand) Springboks v Australia (Australia) Saturday 18 September Argentina v New Zealand (New Zealand) Australia v Springboks (Australia) Saturday 25 September New Zealand v Springboks (New Zealand) Australia v Argentina (Australia) Saturday 2 October Springboks v New Zealand (New Zealand) Argentina v Australia (Australia)