More people are seeking help with their debt according to the DebtBusters 2021 Q1 Debt Index, which tracks client trends quarter-on-quarter over the past five years. It shows the number of South African consumers seeking help to manage their debt soared in the first quarter, with enquiries to DebtBusters increasing by 31% compared to the same period in 2020. The sudden increase indicates that consumers are becoming more proactive about their debt and stagnating real income, says Benay Sager, head of DebtBusters. “Although nominal income is 7% higher compared to 2016 levels, cumulative inflation of 24% has shrunk real incomes by 17% in five years.” ALSO READ: SA’s debt burden grows as household incomes decline This means that many consumers are compelled to borrow to make up the shortfall, getting them deeper into debt. According to the Index: The good news is that more consumers, particularly men, are actively seeking help, Sager says. “The number of men enquiring about debt counselling has increased from 48% to 56% since 2016. In a society where debt is not readily discussed and many men avoid seeking help, this is encouraging.” The other good news is that the number of consumers who have successfully completed debt counselling grew by 56% a year since 2016. In January 2021 alone, consumers with a collective R142 million in debt when they started the process obtained their clearance certificates. Sager says it is clear that the process works and is an effective way for financially distressed consumers to improve their financial situation. ALSO READ: Consumers spend R6 of every R10 paying debts – just like the government There have been consumers who ended up with debt counsellors who did not stick to the provisions of the National Credit Act. To protect yourself, ensure that you: Also remember that only people who earn an income qualify for debt counselling and that as soon as you have applied for debt counselling, it is noted at the credit bureaus and you cannot qualify for more credit.