Loyalty or rewards programmes, usually implemented by retailers and other businesses, offer rewards, discounts, and other special incentives to their customers, as a way to keep their current customers or attract new ones. South Africa has a wide range of rewards programmes which allow customers to save when shopping and get personalised discounts and specials. Most of us can’t get through the queue at the store unless we’ve been asked if we have a DisChem card or a Smart shopper. Here is a list of a few of the best rewards programmes in South Africa which you should consider signing up for: Checkers Xtra Savings When you sign up for a Checkers Xtra Savings Rewards Card you can save up to 25% on selected groceries instantly at the till by just simply swiping the card. The Checkers Xtra Savings rewards programme has no points or levels. FNB eBucks rewards programme With the FNB eBucks rewards programme you earn eBucks automatically every time you make use of your qualifying FNB or RMB Private Bank account to pay for goods. Plus, when you use your bank card at an eBucks partner you earn even more eBucks. Perks: Pick n Pay Smart Shopper When signing up for a Smart Shopper card at Pick n Pay, you earn points every time you swipe your Smart Shopper card. The accumulated points can be spent on anything you like. Pick n Pay also has personalized discounts every two weeks which are automatically added to your Smart Shopper card. You can make use of your discounts in store, or online once you have linked your Smart Shopper card to your online profile. Perks: Discovery’s Vitality Rewards programme The Discovery Vitality programme is made up of three different programmes that reward you for living healthier, driving well and banking well. 1 . Vitality Health Programme Vitality Health points are earned by getting active, eating well and doing all of your health checks. You can get rewarded for each of the different Vitality Health status levels and can improve your status as you get healthier. Perks: 2. Vitality Drive Points You can earn Vitality Drive points by improving your driver behaviour and knowledge. You can get rewarded for each of the different Vitality Drive status levels. Perks: 3, Vitality Money Programme Discovery Bank aims to assist you to get financially heathier and giving you rewards for spending your money wisely. Improve your financial health by spending less than you earn, saving regularly, paying off your property, investing for the long term and making sure you are protected against insurable events. Perks: Clicks ClubCard You can sign up for the Clicks ClubClub card on the Clicks app on your smartphone, or sign up at your nearest Clicks store. There is no need to carry around another plastic rewards card, because you can simply open the app and scan your digital ClubCard when you shop at Clicks to earn ClubCard points and save. Perks: DisChem’s  Loyalty Benefit programmes DisChem Baby Programme The Baby Programme is aimed at expectant parents and for parents of toddlers up to the age of 36 months. Perks: Beautiful Woman Programme This programme was created for customers who purchase frequently at the cosmetics, fragrance and beauty departments. Perks: 60 Plus Programme Created for senior customers over the age of 60. Perks:  