Despite Prince Kaybee – real name Kabelo Motsamai – always reminding everyone he’s happily in love with his girl and radio personality, Zola Mhlongo, the Charlotte hit maker has publicly admitted to cheating. The DJ seemed to have a lot on his mind, tweeting an apology in the early hours of Wednesday morning to Mhlongo and his mother for his actions. ALSO READ: Prince Kaybee’s ‘weird’ penis tweet causes a stir “I cheated, I humiliated my girlfriend publicly. To the people I have disappointed, the businesses I represent, my girlfriend and my mother I profusely apologise from the bottom of my heart,” he said on Twitter. I cheated, I humiliated my girlfriend publicly. To the people I have disappointed, the businesses I represent, my girlfriend and my Mother I profusely apologise from the bottom of my heart. — THE 4TH REPUBLIC (@PrinceKaybee_SA) May 4, 2021  Last year, Motsamai and Mhlongo opened up about their love and relationship on the YouTube show, Defining Love, where they revealed they had been dating for a little over a year. In the episode, Motsamai explained how he first saw Mhlongo on social media before sending her DMs, while the radio personality opened up her heart when she read a “love letter” from the DJ. READ MORE: Prince Kaybee bombarded with nudes from thirsty fan Now we have to wonder about those #LoveGoals that had Twitter users up in arms over the couple’s relationship. Last month fans flooded Motsamai’s timeline with comments over a video in which the DJ and Mhlongo play football. This whole Prince Kaybee and Zola situation just reminded me of this AKA clip.
Couldnt have said it better! But ke yall praat. pic.twitter.com/gY43VJOLS3 — Mjolo-The-Pandemic???? (@thirstysphe) May 4, 2021  My heart is so broken for Zola – Prince Kaybee’s girlfriend. No woman deserves to be shamed like this. I don’t know why as men we take for granted women who watch our backs, chasing for those attention seeking parasites. — SITHALE???? (@SithaleKgaogelo) May 4, 2021  I tried saving Zola last year from Prince kaybee but instead she blocked me. Look now Prince kaybee is cheating on her. I knew she was a rebound. Zola I’m still available babe I can be your Prince pic.twitter.com/WMif2HfbhW — Teddy (@TheZarBillion) May 4, 2021  How does Prince Kaybee go on defining love with Zola and then turn around and cheat on her like that ?
In conclusion men are vile. — ???????????????? ???????????????? (@MabuselaOratile) May 4, 2021  prince kaybee hearing Zola defending him pic.twitter.com/9N4Ym7DPF6 — ????????Mayjor (@Tantie_22) May 4, 2021  “Prince Kaybee even introduced Zola to his mother” Don’t you know that mothers are the best ‘wingman’ , they’re loyalty is to their sons. pic.twitter.com/zuSMDtr594 — ???????????????????????????????????????? (@MduZero11) May 4, 2021  Zolani forgiving Prince Kaybee pic.twitter.com/mQc5NGZr2z — Qhama Dlula (@qhamadlula_) May 4, 2021 